# Analysis of Complementary Relationships Among Three Modes of Body RFID Skeleton Activity Graphs

​	Each modality in multi-modal human activity recognition can be regarded as an independent observation perspective, and the human activity state reflected from different perspectives is different. The tag response feature data of different modalities of the same human activity have their own changing patterns and physical meanings over time. Considering the activity graph of the three-modal body RFID skeleton in Fig. 3, Fig. 7 shows the changes of the feature data of the three-modal RFID skeleton nodes in the activity of “standing to stooping”. This chart contains 16 small line graphs, corresponding to the tags numbered from 0 to 15 in the human skeleton in order from left to right and top to bottom. It displays the changes in feature data of the 16 tags in the body RFID skeleton of three modalities, namely the motion information of each node in the activity. The horizontal axis of each line graph represents time, and the three vertical axes represent Doppler frequency (left), RSSI (right), and Phase (right), respectively. Some subplots have no data due to the multi-tag reading mechanism, which results in no data being received at certain times, that is, some tag response records miss. From the figure, it can be seen that the DF values of the tags (10-15) located at the lower body limb nodes oscillate slightly around the 0 value, reflecting that the movement speed of the lower body nodes during this activity is close to 0, that is, they are in a relatively stationary state. The DF value fluctuation amplitude of the tags (2-7) at the upper body limb nodes is greater, which precisely reflects that the movement of the upper body nodes during bending activities is more intense than that of the lower body nodes. RSSI reflects the distance between the tag and the antenna, which is the location information of the node. Nodes 10 and 11 represent hip joints, while nodes 12 and 13 represent knee joints. The RSSI values of these nodes are initially stable, indicating that they were initially in a stationary state. A decrease in value indicates that these nodes are far away from the antenna. Finally, they stabilize, indicating that the action will remain still after completion. These changes also explain the slight backward tilt of the hip and knee joints during bending, which causes the tag to move away from the antenna (the activity is completed directly facing the antenna). Both Phase and RSSI reflect the changes in node position, and their trends in the graph are very similar. However, the range of RSSI values is larger than that of Phase, so RSSI has a stronger perception ability for changes in human joint position, while Phase has a more delicate and accurate perception of position changes. Therefore, Phase is an enhancement of RSSI expression ability. At the same time, the change amplitude of the Phase value of the upper body node is greater than that of the lower body node, indicating that the movement amplitude of the upper body node is greater than that of the lower body node. The changes in the three modalities are consistent with the changes in the skeleton nodes caused by the activity, indicating that the human activity dataset obtained in this study can truly and effectively reflect human activities. 

​	The different activity states reflected from different perspectives also have certain complementary relationships. In this activity, the DF values of the lower body node tags are almost close to 0, indicating that the lower body nodes move slowly and are basically in a relatively stationary state, so DF has a weak representation ability for lower body nodes. The RSSI and Phase values of the lower body node tags first stabilize, then decrease, and finally reach stability, indicating that there is slight movement of the lower body node. Therefore, RSSI and Phase values have stronger perception ability and better expressiveness for lower body nodes. At this time, RSSI and Phase can be used to compensate for the insufficient performance of DF on lower body nodes. The variation amplitude of the DF value of the upper body node tags is greater than that of the RSSI value, and it is also greater than the variation amplitude of the DF value and RSSI value of the lower body node tags, indicating that the DF value can better reflect the more intense movement of the upper body itself than that of the lower body. Therefore, DF has a stronger perception ability for upper body nodes than RSSI. The change in Phase value is very similar to RSSI, and they both perceive location. However, Phase has a more accurate perception of location and can be used as an enhancement of RSSI expressiveness. Therefore, complementary multi-modal feature information can be used to compensate for the insufficient expressiveness of single modal features, thus enabling a more comprehensive reflection of human activities from multiple perspectives.